---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-13
published: true
labels:
  - E1: UI Basics Technical Essay
---

Since this was the class' first WODs, I was very excited, and since I became more familiar with HTML and CSS from the resources and the class labs, I thought it would be easy... but I was very wrong. I wanted to do it as the instructions advised us; try it first and see if you can do it yourself. On my first attempt, I forgot how to create a hyperlink, and then I had to research while the time was still running, and then eventually, I gave up. I then took a step back to think. I then came up with a brilliant strategy that I believe I'll be using for all the WODs;  I first watched the video exclusively as how I would watch a lecture video (WITHOUT CODING AT THE SAME TIME). I was purely listening and taking notes of the codes and what they do (very important). I would jot down detailed notes with screenshots where I could understand the code without looking at the WOD instruction. After watching the video and reviewing my notes, I would attempt to do the WOD timed, but I did not focus on being fast; I was focused on completing the task. I ensured that the only reference I use is my notes (video off).

Whenever I'm stuck at a certain point, I would note where I got stuck and try to continue with the WOD. I'd keep recording the parts where I'd get stuck until I'm on the last step. After this, I would review my notes, rewatch the parts where I was stuck, and take more detailed notes of what I missed and errors I might have made. Then I'd turn off the video and start the WOD again, but this time I would pick up the pace. It took me a few tries to hit the Rx time, but I believe my way of doing the WODs saved me a lot of time. I'd first try to learn and focus on completing the exercise. Once I can finish it myself, I then work on my speed.

I thought of the exercise as an actual WOD, just like in CrossFit; I would first work on the fundamentals, ensuring I understood what I had to do, having proper form, and building my strength. Then once I have the essentials down, I will work on improving my time.

